source/blog/2019-10-10-use-of-github.html.markdown, before:

---
title: Using GitHub as shared repository
author: Architecture Team
date: 2019/10/10
category: information
image: /images/blogs/2019-10-10-github.png
image_alt: Screenshot of DSS GitHub page
---

At a meeting of the NICS Technical Design Group, members of the DSS Enterprise and Solution Architecture Team showed how GitHub can be used to store both code and the documentation that should accompany it.

Providing a repository in this way is very much driven by the NICS Enterprise Architecture principle:

[Be open and use open source and open standards](https://nics-ea-principles.london.cloudapps.digital/documentation/general/#1-7-be-open-and-use-open-source-and-open-standards).

A number of repository templates have been created to make storing your code and building your documentation really straight forward. If you need any help or assistance please contact the [DSS Enterprise and Solution Architecture Team](mailto:ea-team@ea.finance-ni.gov.uk).

The DSS repositories can be found at [https://github.com/dof-dss](https://github.com/dof-dss).

Commit message:

Add archive, categories and tags

source/blog/2019-10-10-use-of-github.html.markdown, after:

---
title: Using GitHub as shared repository
author: Architecture Team
date: 2019/10/10
category: information
tags: application
image: /images/blogs/2019-10-10-github.png
image_alt: Screenshot of DSS GitHub page
---

At a meeting of the NICS Technical Design Group, members of the DSS Enterprise and Solution Architecture Team showed how GitHub can be used to store both code and the documentation that should accompany it.

Providing a repository in this way is very much driven by the NICS Enterprise Architecture principle:

[Be open and use open source and open standards](https://nics-ea-principles.london.cloudapps.digital/documentation/general/#1-7-be-open-and-use-open-source-and-open-standards){:class="govuk-link"}.

A number of repository templates have been created to make storing your code and building your documentation really straight forward. If you need any help or assistance please contact the [DSS Enterprise and Solution Architecture Team](mailto:ea-team@ea.finance-ni.gov.uk){:class="govuk-link"}.

The DSS repositories can be found at [https://github.com/dof-dss](https://github.com/dof-dss){:class="govuk-link"}.
