source/blog/2020-06-22-strategically-evolving-nics-architecture.html.markdown, before:

---
title: Strategically Evolving NICS architecture
author: Architecture Team
date: 2020-06-22
category: strategy
image: /images/blogs/2020-06-22-strategic-planning.jpg
image_alt: Screen shot image strategy
---

### Applying Enterprise Architecture principles in real life

Today the team published a framework for strategically evolving the NICS architecture.  The strategy enables the continuing development of the NICS architecture to proceed in a purposeful and strategically beneficial manner.

The [NICS Enterprise Architecture Principles](https://principles.ea.digitalni.gov.uk/) guide decisions and act as the basis for architecture development.  The framework specifically applies two principles to guide the procuring and hosting of solutions:

- [1.4 Reuse over buy over build](https://principles.ea.digitalni.gov.uk/documentation/general/#1-4-reuse-before-buy-buy-before-build)
- [4.5 Leverage multi-cloud provision](https://principles.ea.digitalni.gov.uk/documentation/technology/#4-5-leveraging-multi-cloud-provision )

The grid below helps us to map out the evolution of our existing application portfolio.

<img
  src="/images/blogs/2020-06-22-visualise-strategy.jpg"
  class="image govuk-!-display-block govuk-!-margin-bottom-4"
  alt="Grid visualising procurement and hosting of NICS applications"
>

### Procuring and hosting new applications

Any new applications should be procured and hosted in a manner that places them in a "green" location, though "amber" locations are permitted.  New applications should not be targeting a procurement and hosting arrangement that places them in a "red" location.  


It is expected that the vast majority of new applications will be able to adhere to the strategy outlined here.  There may be extenuating circumstances where this may not be possible.  If this is the case the project team should engage the Enterprise Architecture team for guidance and if necessary a dispensation may be granted.


If you have any questions or comments on the strategy please contact us by sending an email to the [EA Team](mailto://ea-team@ea.finance-ni.gov.uk).

Commit message:

Add archive, categories and tags

source/blog/2020-06-22-strategically-evolving-nics-architecture.html.markdown, after:

---
title: Strategically Evolving NICS architecture
author: Architecture Team
date: 2020-06-22
category: strategy
tags: enterprise architecture
image: /images/blogs/2020-06-22-strategic-planning.jpg
image_alt: Screen shot image strategy
---

### Applying Enterprise Architecture principles in real life

Today the team published a framework for strategically evolving the NICS architecture.  The strategy enables the continuing development of the NICS architecture to proceed in a purposeful and strategically beneficial manner.

The [NICS Enterprise Architecture Principles](https://principles.ea.digitalni.gov.uk/){:class="govuk-link"} guide decisions and act as the basis for architecture development.  The framework specifically applies two principles to guide the procuring and hosting of solutions:

- [1.4 Reuse over buy over build](https://principles.ea.digitalni.gov.uk/documentation/general/#1-4-reuse-before-buy-buy-before-build){:class="govuk-link"}
- [4.5 Leverage multi-cloud provision](https://principles.ea.digitalni.gov.uk/documentation/technology/#4-5-leveraging-multi-cloud-provision ){:class="govuk-link"}

The grid below helps us to map out the evolution of our existing application portfolio.

<img
  src="/images/blogs/2020-06-22-visualise-strategy.jpg"
  class="image govuk-!-display-block govuk-!-margin-bottom-4"
  alt="Grid visualising procurement and hosting of NICS applications"
>

### Procuring and hosting new applications

Any new applications should be procured and hosted in a manner that places them in a "green" location, though "amber" locations are permitted.  New applications should not be targeting a procurement and hosting arrangement that places them in a "red" location.  


It is expected that the vast majority of new applications will be able to adhere to the strategy outlined here.  There may be extenuating circumstances where this may not be possible.  If this is the case the project team should engage the Enterprise Architecture team for guidance and if necessary a dispensation may be granted.


If you have any questions or comments on the strategy please contact us by sending an email to the [EA Team](mailto://ea-team@ea.finance-ni.gov.uk){:class="govuk-link"}.
