source/blog/2020-07-03-developer-portal-launch.html.markdown, before:

---
title: EA Team launches API developer portal
author: Architecture Team
date: 2020-07-03
category: "product launch"
image: /images/blogs/2020-07-03-developer-portal-screenshot.png
image_alt: Screenshot of API developer portal
---

### Find the APIs you need to build your next great service

Today the team launched the [API Developer Portal](https://developer-portal.digitalni.gov.uk). The portal provides a list of reusable APIs to help you build services for the NICS. You can browse the list of currently available APIs and see each API's supporting documentation.

In order to access the list of available APIs you will need to create an account with us. Your information is stored purely for the purposes of controlling access to this resource; it will not be used for any other purpose.

The portal also contains a list of APIs that we plan to deliver in the future.

If you would like to have your API hosted by DSS on our platform then please contact the [EA Team](mailto:ea-team@ea.finance-ni.gov.uk).

Commit message:

Add archive, categories and tags

source/blog/2020-07-03-developer-portal-launch.html.markdown, after:

---
title: EA Team launches API developer portal
author: Architecture Team
date: 2020-07-03
category: "product launch"
tags: application, api
image: /images/blogs/2020-07-03-developer-portal-screenshot.png
image_alt: Screenshot of API developer portal
---

### Find the APIs you need to build your next great service

Today the team launched the [API Developer Portal](https://developer-portal.digitalni.gov.uk){:class="govuk-link"}. The portal provides a list of reusable APIs to help you build services for the NICS. You can browse the list of currently available APIs and see each API's supporting documentation.

In order to access the list of available APIs you will need to create an account with us. Your information is stored purely for the purposes of controlling access to this resource; it will not be used for any other purpose.

The portal also contains a list of APIs that we plan to deliver in the future.

If you would like to have your API hosted by DSS on our platform then please contact the [EA Team](mailto:ea-team@ea.finance-ni.gov.uk){:class="govuk-link"}.
