source/blog/2020-06-11-govuk-paas.html.markdown, before:

---
title: EA Team promotes the use of GOV.UK PaaS
author: Architecture Team
date: 2020-06-11
category: information
image: /images/blogs/2020-06-11-govuk-paas.png
image_alt: Image of GOV.UK Platform as a Service product page
---

Today the Enterprise Architecture Team proposed the use of [GOV.UK PaaS](https://www.cloud.service.gov.uk) as its preferred application hosting environment to the NICS Innovation and Technical Design Authority.

The team talked about the benefits of using GOV.UK PaaS as a versatile, robust, scalable and secure application hosting platform.

The platform is designed and built to meet user needs in government:

- it is delivered at cost
- it avoids a lot of procurement hassle
- it avoids vendor lock-in
- it has been accredited to store official sensitive data and is endorsed by NCSC
- it's fast for developers to deploy to
- it is powerful and flexible and support running complex services on up-to-date technology

A case study was presented to provide evidence of the substantial real savings to be made from using the platform.

Commit message:

Add archive, categories and tags

source/blog/2020-06-11-govuk-paas.html.markdown, after:

---
title: EA Team promotes the use of GOV.UK PaaS
author: Architecture Team
date: 2020-06-11
category: information
tags: platform, paas
image: /images/blogs/2020-06-11-govuk-paas.png
image_alt: Image of GOV.UK Platform as a Service product page
---

Today the Enterprise Architecture Team proposed the use of [GOV.UK PaaS](https://www.cloud.service.gov.uk){:class="govuk-link"} as its preferred application hosting environment to the NICS Innovation and Technical Design Authority.

The team talked about the benefits of using GOV.UK PaaS as a versatile, robust, scalable and secure application hosting platform.

The platform is designed and built to meet user needs in government:

- it is delivered at cost
- it avoids a lot of procurement hassle
- it avoids vendor lock-in
- it has been accredited to store official sensitive data and is endorsed by NCSC
- it's fast for developers to deploy to
- it is powerful and flexible and support running complex services on up-to-date technology

A case study was presented to provide evidence of the substantial real savings to be made from using the platform.
