source/blog/2020-07-20-ea-team-launches-architecture-catalogue.html.markdown, before:

---
title: EA Team launches Architecture Catalogue
author: Architecture Team
date: 2020-07-20
category: "product launch"
published: false
image: /images/blogs/2020-06-12-catalogue.png
image_alt: Screen shot image of architecture catalogue
---

Today the team launched the Architecture Catalogue. The catalogue contains all of the solution building blocks (physical components) used by the NICS to build digital services for its customers.

The catalogue enables you to:

- [View components that are part of the existing architecture](#view-components-that-are-part-of-the-existing-nics-architecture)
- [Update the architecture](#update-the-architecture-as-new-solutions-are-developed)
- [Plan changes based on component roadmaps](#plan-changes-based-on-component-roadmaps)

### View components that are part of the existing NICS architecture

You can browse or search the catalogue of components used by the NICS to deliver digital solutions to its customers. Catalogue entries have a status associated with their current level of approval for use. This allows solution builders to search for and select approved technologies quickly. It will also assist those supporting existing solutions by identifying those technology components that are approaching or have reached end of life.

### Update the architecture as new solutions are developed

Solution designers can update the catalogue when new technologies are employed (including new versions of existing technologies).

### Plan changes based on component roadmaps

Components have a status associated with them that indicates which stage they are at in their lifecycle. Components will progress through a number of status changes during their lifetime: evaluating, approved, retiring, unapproved and prohibited. Therefore by looking at the status of all the components in a solution it should be possible to plan the changes required to keep a solution in a fully supported and approved state.

### More information

[Architecture Catalogue Product Page](https://github.com/dof-dss)

Commit message:

Add archive, categories and tags

source/blog/2020-07-20-ea-team-launches-architecture-catalogue.html.markdown, after:

---
title: EA Team launches Architecture Catalogue
author: Architecture Team
date: 2020-07-20
category: "product launch"
tags: application
published: false
image: /images/blogs/2020-06-12-catalogue.png
image_alt: Screen shot image of architecture catalogue
---

Today the team launched the Architecture Catalogue. The catalogue contains all of the solution building blocks (physical components) used by the NICS to build digital services for its customers.

The catalogue enables you to:

- [View components that are part of the existing architecture](#view-components-that-are-part-of-the-existing-nics-architecture){:class="govuk-link"}
- [Update the architecture](#update-the-architecture-as-new-solutions-are-developed){:class="govuk-link"}
- [Plan changes based on component roadmaps](#plan-changes-based-on-component-roadmaps){:class="govuk-link"}

### View components that are part of the existing NICS architecture

You can browse or search the catalogue of components used by the NICS to deliver digital solutions to its customers. Catalogue entries have a status associated with their current level of approval for use. This allows solution builders to search for and select approved technologies quickly. It will also assist those supporting existing solutions by identifying those technology components that are approaching or have reached end of life.

### Update the architecture as new solutions are developed

Solution designers can update the catalogue when new technologies are employed (including new versions of existing technologies).

### Plan changes based on component roadmaps

Components have a status associated with them that indicates which stage they are at in their lifecycle. Components will progress through a number of status changes during their lifetime: evaluating, approved, retiring, unapproved and prohibited. Therefore by looking at the status of all the components in a solution it should be possible to plan the changes required to keep a solution in a fully supported and approved state.
